What's the matter, hero?
M-Monster!
Weren't you gonna give me
my "just deserts"?
Maybe you'd like a demonstration.
W-Wait! Don't—
N-No, sir! We need him alive!
Blue Miburo
We can't leave this matter to ronin alone.
Three enemies of Aizu remain,
and I'll capture them myself.
C-Culprit secured!
I missed.
Must be drunker than I thought.
Every opening he had vanished when
he switched to a left-handed stance.
That said, I can't just up
and abandon a job.
You sure one's enough?
This'll be over in one clash either way.
Drawing both wouldn't make a difference.
I'll make it!
Kill me.
Screwups die.
That's shinobi law.
"Shinobi law," my ass.
You're not cut out for this.
No one came to our meeting spot.
No pigeons bringing info, either,
and the inn's staked out.
Don't tell me they got Kyoshiro,
Old Man Gonzo, and Rokuhei, too?
Jutaro's been killed.
I need to flee the city before—
Ah. The old man who served us tea
mentioned a man missing his right eye.
They found me!
But he's alone. Maybe I can...
There's no way in hell I can take that freak!
Whoa there.
That's as far as you go.
What a letdown.
I wish he'd at least had
the spine to fight it out.
Don't grumble, Soji. Few men amount to more.
This is it for you.
We're gonna make you pay
for all the evil you've done.
What'll it be? Cut him down
and get it over with?
Wh-What's wrong with these guys?
These are the Miburo?
You've got nowhere left to run.
I wouldn't want any part
of what you've got coming.
They brought kids with them?!
Surrender. You've lost.
Ganging up on me's a dirty trick!
Not one of you could beat me man-to-man!
Pathetic.
What was that?
You won't even risk your life
to stand by what you've done.
And you expect me
to believe all of you would?
'Course we would.
You wouldn't even best this pup.
What?
Gimme a break!
Like I'd ever seriously duel a little kid—
I'll fight you.
If you don't mind.
A wooden sword?
What a riot! Wanna play swordsman, huh?
I have a suggestion.
If I win, you'll come with us quietly.
If you win, we'll let you go.
Are you serious?
Your buddies will never go along with that.
One bet on Nio to win.
What?
Make that two.
I'm in.
So am I.
I've killed two men already.
And I've only got a real sword.
If you come at me...
you'd better not whine when I kill you.
Fine by me.
You had me going for a second there,
but you're all bark, no bite.
No. That wasn't bad.
What's with this kid?
Whoa, wait a—
You won't whine when
I crack your skull, will you?
W-Wait! Hold on!
There. We've got you now.
Culprit secured!
So they're all fearless? Even the kids?
Luck wasn't on your side.
The city of Kyoto has the Miburo.
Nicely done, Nio-kun!
Splendid work.
Th-Thank you.
Y-You did it.
You did it!
Wait, did you go weak at the knees?
After all that tough talk?
He probably figured showing weakness
would get him killed. That's just like him.
No, I'm just not good enough
to have won any other way.
I-I don't believe you.
By the way, how long are you
gonna hold onto that sword?
Oh, right. I'm so stiff that I can't let go.
Kondo-san.
You froze up because you're too tense.
Um, why did you trust me, sir?
You've done your sword swings every day.
I set great store by spirit, attitude,
and other things that can't be seen.
But not today.
I trusted these hands of yours.
They prove you've been working hard.
Keep at it.
Yes, sir!
That makes all of 'em!
Taro, go buy some dried squid!
Time to cut loose!
As if any place is open now!
Commissioner of Kyoto
Lord Matsudaira Higo-no-Kami of Aizu
Konkai-Komyoji Head Temple
They're here!
What? Again?
Right. They're all coming
because they caught the last killer.
I don't believe it.
We've been hunting those men for
three months with nothing to show for it,
and it only took them two days?
Working hard, I see.
I'm so damn tired.
Why's it gotta be up in the mountains?
Hang in there, Taro-kun. We're almost there.
What a wimp.
They have kids with them?
Fujita?
Sorry. They beat you to it.
Those are the Miburo.
I commend you on your magnificent service.
I am most pleased.
Thank you, sir.
So this is the lord of Aizu.
Doesn't he seem a bit weird to you?
Shh!
Very.
My lord.
Right.
I wish you to continue doing
your utmost for the people.
I promise to formally enlist the Mibu
Roshigumi and provide further support.
All right!
Oh, happy day!
M-Mind your manners!
His Lordship is watching!
Let them be.
Still, you fellows must be awfully strong.
To show you just how strong,
let us demonstrate our swordsmanship.
Hirama. Hirayama.
Yes, sir.
Why are you more excited than they are?
All right, I'm ready.
Let's do this.
We'll show 'em what we can do.
Let's blow His Lordship's mind.
Haven't you had enough?
Kondo-san!
What a nice garden!
Fujita. Don't just stand there. Earn your pay.
We can really go at it here!
A sword! Bring me a sword!
Hey, I oughta go first!
Miburo, I take it?
What are you doing?
I asked where the men who died are buried.
I'm saying a prayer for them.
Um, what's your name, sir?
I'm called Fujita.
Oh, I forgot to introduce myself. I'm Nio.
What were the names of
the deceased gentlemen?
Why do you want to know?
Oh, no real reason. I just thought it'd be nice
to know a little about the men I'm praying for.
I-Is that strange?
No.
One of the murdered men, Kushibe,
grew up in the same village as me.
Kushibe-san.
We often trained together.
I loved the way he used a blade.
We came to serve in Kyoto together,
but he died before
he could achieve anything.
Did Kushibe-san have, um, a favorite food?
I'm not sure.
Thinking about it, he did love
the sea bream at his sister's wedding.
Sea bream? Thank you very much.
We should get back soon.
Yes, sir.
What a gorgeous view. I didn't realize.
His Lordship wanted their graves
to command a view of the city.
He may act above it all,
but our lord knows how to show he cares.
Don't misunderstand him.
Is Kushibe-san up in heaven
with the Buddhas now?
No. He was a sore loser
with a jealous streak.
He gave as good as he got.
Kushibe is walking the streets
of Kyoto as we speak,
even if only his grudges live on.
I made up my mind to do
enough work for the both of us.
That makes one more thing
I know about Kushibe-san.
Oh, I left out the most important thing.
You have my sincere
gratitude for this matter.
O-Oh, no, I barely did anything.
The men down below did it all—
No.
I'm truly glad that his avengers
were not merely strong,
but willing to show compassion
to us men of Aizu like you have.
I was wrong to view
the Miburo as mere outlaws.
N-No...
Thank you very much.
Now I'm certain we did the right thing.
Next time, I'll bring a sea bream this big,
with the head and tail and all.
I'll ask around about the other three
before your next visit.
Please do.
Nio! Show off your swordsmanship, too!
I can only do practice swings.
It doesn't matter! Just do it!
His Lordship won't let us stop
until he sees all of us!
I-In that case, I'll show my practice swings.
One, two, three, four, five...
The Miburo serve Aizu now.
I asked what would change, but...
What's more samurai than serving a lord?
I didn't get a very clear answer.
Still, our hosts, the Yagis,
were all overjoyed,
and some of us never stopped partying,
so I'm sure it'll be great for us.
I'm back.
You must be tired from patrolling, Todo-san—
All the cherry blossoms have fallen.
Those are autumn leaves.
Anyway, what's the matter?
You seem awfully blue.
Nio! You've got to help me!
Welcome.
What do you think, Nio?
You're right. She seems wonderful.
She's cheerful, considerate,
and she livens up the whole restaurant.
You know that's not what I mean!
Ow!
What he wants to know is,
would she make a good wife?
Like Heisuke has a chance.
He's got no sex appeal.
Compared to my collection
of erotic prints...
Shut up!
What are you even doing here?
We can read you like a book!
Man, the nerve of those idiots.
So what do you want my help with?
I'm in love.
Really? I'm rooting for you.
They say you can charm anyone
with a pulse, so I came to you.
I'm not sure I like how you put that.
Thank you for waiting.
You must really love soba.
This is your fifth visit today.
What?
Oh, yes. Absolutely.
I-I can never get enough soba.
It just tastes so good!
Stop torturing yourself, Todo-san!
What else can I do?
Those're Miburo.
Don't make eye contact.
We do serve Aizu now, right?
It seems the townsfolk
haven't heard the news.
Oh, of course! Clothes!
Yes, I see. People might trust us more
if we all wore matching coats.
No! Nice clothes and fine swords will
make her look at me like a whole new man!
Seriously?
He'd never just lend me some, would he?
A sword is a samurai's soul.
Out of the question.
Right you are, sir.
Serizawa-san.
This is an affair of the heart.
Borrow away.
And take my coat, too!
Thank you so much, sir.
Welcome.
Sh-She laughed at me.
It is a little too big for you.
Damn it. I'm down to my last resort.
Come with us!
When she rounds the next corner,
Sanosuke will start hassling her.
Then I'll come to the rescue.
It's the perfect plan.
It's the scummiest plan.
Um, why did you join the Miburo, Todo-san?
Huh?
I heard you trained at
Kondo-san's dojo in Edo.
But not all of his students
followed him here, right?
I was on the fence. You see...
I'm actually pretty tough.
I know.
And I figured I'd get more women
if I got even tougher.
Not much of a motive, huh?
No, I think it's natural
for any living creature.
You're one weird kid.
When no one was listening,
my mom used to tell me,
"You're Lord Izumi-no-kami's bastard son,
so live up to that legacy."
That's amazing.
Your father's an important man.
I don't believe a word of it.
Still, I want to do something
to make a name for myself.
It'll make my mom happy.
Shinsuke-san!
Hey. Been waiting long?
Oh, you.
Let's go home, Nio.
Th-That might be a good idea.
What have we here? You're gettin'
awful frisky out here on a public street.
Let us get in on the fun.
Or hand over your money.
What? That's not Sanosuke-san.
Todo-san, we've got trouble.
Huh?
Ow, ow, ow!
Okay, give it a rest.
The lady's not interested.
Stop! You're gonna break my arm!
Damn it.
Who the hell are you?
A Miburo. And don't you forget it.
Damn it!
Th-Thank you so much.
Todo-san!
What a drag.
Todo-san. Todo-san!
What?
You were incredible!
Nio, I like you!
Barber
Open
Nio, my mind's made up.
I'm gonna turn over a new leaf.
From this day on,
I live for the people of Kyoto!
Right!
What will serving Aizu change?
We'll work harder than ever
for the people of this city.
That's good enough.
Come on. Let's go.
I guess.
There's plenty more girls out there!
L-Let's try harder next time.
I want to meet more of 'em.
You will.
Palm of the Hand
Next time
The Lord of Aizu's offer turns
the Miburo from just a pack of ronin
into agents carrying out the will of
Aizu Domain, and through it, the Shogunate.
And so, little by little,
the times start changing.
But the Miburo themselves
spend their days in youthful fervor.
Next time: "Treasure."
Treasure
It won't disappoint.